README.md, before:

# HECTOR: A Multi-level Intermediate Representation for Hardware Synthesis Methodologies

## Introduction
Hardware synthesis requires a complicated process to generate synthesizable register transfer level (RTL) code. High-level synthesis tools can automatically transform a high-level description into hardware design, while hardware generators adopt domain specific languages and synthesis flows for specific applications. The implementation of these tools generally requires substantial engineering efforts due to RTL’s weak expressivity and low level of abstraction. Furthermore, different synthesis tools adopt different levels of intermediate representations (IR) and transformations. A unified IR obviously is a good way to lower the engineering cost and get competitive hardware design rapidly by exploring different synthesis methodologies.

This project proposes Hector, a two-level IR providing a unified intermediate representation for hardware synthesis methodologies. The high-level IR binds computation with a control graph annotated with timing information, while the low-level IR provides a concise way to describe hardware modules and elastic interconnections among them. Implemented based on the multi-level compiler infrastructure (MLIR), Hector’s IRs can be converted to synthesizable RTL designs.

## Installation
1. Install LLVM/MLIR according to https://mlir.llvm.org/getting_started/
We use the commit 1c10201d9660c1d6f43a7226ca7381bfa255105d
```sh
git checkout 1c10201d9660c1d6f43a7226ca7381bfa255105d
```

2. Clone the project
```git clone https://github.com/pku-liang/Hector.git```

3. Get the submodules
```sh
cd Hector
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
4. Configuration and build
```sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G Ninja .. -DMLIR_DIR=<LLVM_DIR>/build/lib/cmake/mlir -DLLVM_EXTERNAL_LIT=<LLVM_DIR>/build/bin/llvm-lit
ninja
```

5. Chisel templates from https://github.com/xuruifan/hector_template/

## Run examples
1. Static & Dynamic scheduling in high-level synthesis
```sh
zsh examples/hls_script.sh build/bin/hector-opt examples
```
2. Hybrid scheduling
```sh
cd build
bin/hector-opt ../examples/hybrid-tuned/aeloss_pull.mlir --scf-to-tor --schedule-tor --split-schedule --generate-hec --dynamic-schedule --dump-chisel
```

## Transformation passes
```sh
build/bin/hector-opt -help
```

Commit message:

First commit for the MLIR update. The project does compile, but there is still a lot of issues to be solved

README.md, after:

# HECTOR: A Multi-level Intermediate Representation for Hardware Synthesis Methodologies

This is a fork of the Hector Project refactored to compile with recent MLIR version (2023). 

## Introduction
Hardware synthesis requires a complicated process to generate synthesizable register transfer level (RTL) code. High-level synthesis tools can automatically transform a high-level description into hardware design, while hardware generators adopt domain specific languages and synthesis flows for specific applications. The implementation of these tools generally requires substantial engineering efforts due to RTL’s weak expressivity and low level of abstraction. Furthermore, different synthesis tools adopt different levels of intermediate representations (IR) and transformations. A unified IR obviously is a good way to lower the engineering cost and get competitive hardware design rapidly by exploring different synthesis methodologies.

This project proposes Hector, a two-level IR providing a unified intermediate representation for hardware synthesis methodologies. The high-level IR binds computation with a control graph annotated with timing information, while the low-level IR provides a concise way to describe hardware modules and elastic interconnections among them. Implemented based on the multi-level compiler infrastructure (MLIR), Hector’s IRs can be converted to synthesizable RTL designs.

## Installation
1. Install LLVM/MLIR according to https://mlir.llvm.org/getting_started/
We use the commit 0ce01712432dd34f7e83f78af23fb444f3fd92b6
```sh
git checkout 0ce01712432dd34f7e83f78af23fb444f3fd92b6
```

2. Clone the project
```git clone https://github.com/pku-liang/Hector.git```

3. Get the submodules
```sh
cd Hector
git submodule update --init --recursive
```
4. Configuration and build
```sh
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -G Ninja .. -DMLIR_DIR=<LLVM_DIR>/build/lib/cmake/mlir -DLLVM_EXTERNAL_LIT=<LLVM_DIR>/build/bin/llvm-lit
ninja
```

5. Chisel templates from https://github.com/xuruifan/hector_template/

## Run examples
1. Static & Dynamic scheduling in high-level synthesis
```sh
zsh examples/hls_script.sh build/bin/hector-opt examples
```
2. Hybrid scheduling
```sh
cd build
bin/hector-opt ../examples/hybrid-tuned/aeloss_pull.mlir --scf-to-tor --schedule-tor --split-schedule --generate-hec --dynamic-schedule --dump-chisel
```

## Transformation passes
```sh
build/bin/hector-opt -help
```
